Everyone gets sad now and then.
To you, in some cases, you may know the cause.
In other cases, you may not.
Even if there doesn't seem to be a cause,
what can you do when sadness holds you in its grip?
First, find someone to talk to about it,
such as a parent or close friend.
In the midst of his turmoil,
Joe, a faithful man in Bible time, said,
I will speak out in my bitter distress.
When someone knows what you're going through,
he or she can lower the rope and pull you out of the pit.
Here's another idea.
Why not put your thoughts on paper?
At Proverbs 321, the Bible tells us to safeguard practical wisdom
and thinking ability.
Writing about your feelings can help you do that.
Once they're on paper, you can sort them out.
And then the sadness can be less overpowering.
A third suggestion.
The Bible says that if you pray about your concerns,
the peace of God that surpasses all understanding
will guard your hearts and thoughts.
So don't forget prayer.
Last, but certainly not least,
reading the Bible can help, especially the Book of Psalms.
Feeling your mind with positive thoughts
from the Bible can have a positive effect on your feelings.
But what if your feelings just won't go away?
What if you've lost interest in just about all activities
that you used to find exciting?
What if you seem to have no appetite?
Have trouble sleeping?
And suffer from intense feelings of hopelessness.
If symptoms persist, why not talk to your parents
about getting a checkup?
A physician can help determine if your sadness has a medical cause,
such as clinical depression.
If you do suffer from clinical depression,
it is nothing to be ashamed of.
With treatment, many sufferers have begun to feel better.
Perhaps even the best they have felt in a long time.
So whether your sadness is caused by depression or not,
with assistance and effort,
you can get out of the deep pit of sadness.
Remember, feelings are temporary.
They will pass.
And if you can learn to deal with them now,
you'll be prepared to handle them as an adult.
By taking things a day at a time,
and relying on the support of your parents and trustworthy friends,
you can go from sad to glad.